DOCS-7855-7856-4.3-Changes-for-SDK (#63)
mulesoft/docs-mule-sdk: modules/ROOT/pages/implicit-configurations.adoc

= Implicit Configurations
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> Some configurations can also be classified as implicit. A configuration can be used implicitly when none of its parameters are required. For example, suppose a foo configuration object which has a required parameter bar:

Reviewer: "also" in addition to what? What is the reference here; to what classification of configuration are we connecting "implicit"?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some configurations are classified as _implicit_. A configuration is used implicitly when none of its parameters is required. For example, imagine a `foo` configuration object that has a required parameter bar:
```
OR

```suggestion
When a configuration comprises parameters and none of those parameters is required, that configuration is called _implicit_. For example, imagine a `foo` configuration object that has a required parameter bar:
```

Reviewer: Consider GLOBALLY replacing "foo" in all examples.
I understand that "foo" and "foobar" are used widely as metasyntactic variables and placeholder names in computer programming or computer-related documentation.
However, the etymology of "foobar" is generally traced to the World War II military slang "FUBAR," which makes it not only culturally and historically specific but also potentially offensive.

Author: ```suggestion
Some configurations can be classified as implicit. A configuration can be used implicitly when none of its parameters are required. For example, suppose a `myConfig` configuration object which has a required parameter `param1`:
```

[source, java, linenums]
----

> <example:foo-config name="myFoo" bar="required value" />

Author: ```suggestion
<example:my-config name="myConfig" param1="required value" />
```

<flow>

> 	<example:operation config-ref="myFoo" />

Author: ```suggestion
	<example:operation config-ref="myConfig" />
```

</flow>
----

Now suppose that the bar parameter were to turn optional instead:

[source, java, linenums]
----

> <example:foo-config name="myFoo" />

Author: ```suggestion
<example:my-config name="myConfig" />
```

<flow>
	<example:operation config-ref="myFoo" />
</flow>
----

> In this case, the entire foo-config (and subsequent config-ref) are redundant as they have no real effect. In these cases, implicit configurations can be used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, all of `foo-config` (and subsequent `config-ref`) are redundant because they have no real effect. In these cases, implicit configurations can be used:
```
Intentionally passive?

Author: ```suggestion
In this case, the entire my-config element (and subsequent config-ref) are redundant because they have no real effect. In these cases, implicit configurations can be used:
```

[source, java, linenums]
----
<flow>
	<example:operation />
</flow>
----

> Because foo-config does not have required parameters, the SDK can create an implicit instance in which all parameters are automatically assigned to their default values. The implicit configuration is either static or dynamic depending on its parameter’s default values. If any of those default is an expression, then the implicit config will be dynamic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because `foo-config` does not have required parameters, the SDK can create an implicit instance in which all parameters are automatically assigned to their default values. The implicit configuration is either static or dynamic depending on its parameter’s default values. If any of those default values is an expression, then the implicit configuration is dynamic.
```

> Because `foo-config` does not have required parameters, the SDK can create an implicit instance in which all parameters are automatically assigned to their default values. The implicit configuration is either static or dynamic depending on its parameter’s default values. If any of those default values is an expression, then the implicit configuration is dynamic.

Author: ```suggestion
Because `my-config` does not have required parameters, the SDK can create an implicit instance in which all parameters are automatically assigned to their default values. The implicit configuration is either static or dynamic depending on its parameter’s default values. If any of those default values is an expression, then the implicit configuration is dynamic.
```

[NOTE]

> Using an expression as a default value breaks the position independence best practice).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using an expression as a default value violates the position-independence best practice.
```
OR
```suggestion
Using an expression as a default value violates the best practice of the position independence.
```

> Using an expression as a default value violates the best practice of the position independence.

Author: ```suggestion
Using an expression as a default value violates the best practice of the xref:mule-sdk::define-operations.adoc#position-independence[position independence].
```

> == Mixing implicit and Explicit configurations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Mixing Implicit and Explicit Configurations
```

Reviewer: Does this really qualify as a whole Level-2 section?

You can use implicit and explicit configurations in tandem:

[source, java, linenums]
----
<flow>
	<example:operation />

> 	<example:operation config-ref="myFoo" />

Author: ```suggestion
	<example:operation config-ref="myConfig" />
```

</flow>
----

> TIP: Only one implicit config is created per configuration type. If two operations try to use implicit configurations of the same type, each uses the exact same instance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TIP: Only one implicit `config` is created per configuration type. If two operations try to use implicit configurations of the same type, each uses the exact same instance:
```
Intentionally passive?

[source, java, linenums]
----
<flow>
	<example:operation />
	<example:operation />
	<!-- Both operations use the same config instance -->
</flow>
----

== Forcing Explicit Configurations

Available since version 1.3.

> There are cases in which you may want to force configurations to always be explicit, even if they contain no required parameters. Usually, such requirements revolve around clarity and usability concerns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are cases in which you might want to force configurations to always be explicit, even if they contain no required parameters. Usually, such requirements revolve around clarity and usability concerns.
```
Such as?

OR

```suggestion
To improve clarity and usability, you might want to force configurations to be always explicit, even if they contain no required parameters.
```

> The @NoImplicit annotation can be used to instruct the SDK to never build implicit instances of a given configuration type:

Reviewer: Intentionally passive?
OR
```suggestion
Use the `@NoImplicit` annotation to instruct the SDK to never build implicit instances of a given configuration type:
```

[source, java, linenums]
----
@Extension(name="example")
@NoImplicit
@Operations(ExampleOperations.class)
public class ExampleModule {

	@Parameter
	@Optional
	public String bar;

}
----

> This annotation can also be used if your configuration has been externalized into a separate class:

Reviewer: ditto re. passive

Author: ```suggestion
You can also use this annotation if your configuration has been externalized into a separate class:
```

[sourcee, java, linenums]
----
@Extension(name="example")

> @Configurations(FooConfiguration.class)

Author: ```suggestion
@Configurations(MyConfiguration.class)
```

public class ExampleModule {

}

> @Configuration(name="foo")

Author: ```suggestion
@Configuration(name="myConfig")
```

@NoImplicit
@Operations(ExampleOperations.class)

> public class FooConfiguration {

Author: ```suggestion
public class MyConfiguration {
```
